1	It is my special pleasure to address the fifty - ninth session of the General Assembly of the United Nations .
2	This universal forum has enabled the peoples of the world to coordinate and harmonize their efforts
3	in preserving peace and security ,
4	in achieving prosperity
5	and upholding the values of human civilization .
6	I would like to congratulate you , Mr. President , on being elected to preside over this august body
7	and to express my confidence in your successful leadership .
8	I would also like , on behalf of Albania , to convey to the Secretary - General our highest appreciation for his leading contribution to the fulfilment of the historical mission of the United Nations and to the aspirations of our peoples for a better world
9	in which only peace , democracy and economic prosperity reign .
IntroductionAndAcknowledgements{<1}Albania'sEffortsUpholdDemocracy
10	This session of the General Assembly takes place in a milestone year for Europe .
11	Only a few months ago , a historic event vitalized the dream of a more united and stronger Europe .
12	Ten European countries ,
13	sharing a common aspiration for integration ,
14	were admitted into the European Union .
15	The Albanian Government and society are engaged in an all - round European integration process ,
16	and they are carrying out necessary reforms with the necessary political will and drive .
17	Albania is working to strengthen the democratic institutions and capacities of its central and local government
18	with a view to bringing its legislation and conditions into line with European Union standards ,
19	progressively achieving concrete and measurable results ,
20	as previously defined .
21	Determined to make our contribution to regional and global security ,
22	the Albanian Government considers the country 's integration into NATO to be one of its major objectives .
23	The NATO Istanbul Summit last June commended the progress
24	made by my country in this regard
25	and encouraged the deepening of reforms .
26	It welcomed Albania 's contribution to regional stability and cooperation
27	and committed to assess our further progress at the next NATO summit ,
28	which would hopefully mark the start of negotiations for our full membership in the alliance .
29	We believe
30	that the commitments
31	set up in the framework of the Adriatic Charter
32	are also contributing to meet NATO standards , to the benefit of regional stability and security .
33	We remain truly convinced
34	that the respect and protection of human rights and freedoms are the main pillars of a pluralist democratic society .
35	The Government of the Republic of Albania will continue to constantly demonstrate its commitment to a full implementation of the standards
36	enshrined in the United Nations and Council of Europe conventions , as well as the relevant documents of regional organizations , such as the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ,
37	in which we are playing a very active role .
38	We will continue to do so in the future as well .
39	By adopting contemporary legislation
40	and by becoming a party to other recently adopted international instruments on human rights ,
41	Albania has associated itself with countries
42	that are enforcing a number of national strategies and programmes
43	focusing on specific population groups , especially women , children , persons in need and minorities , among others .
44	In recent years , the Albanian Government has started to periodically submit reports to the committees of the six main United Nations human rights treaties
45	and is taking their recommendations into serious consideration .
46	It is our belief that these international mechanisms play a significant and important role as guardians of the common human values
47	we have together adopted .
48	Albania , as one of the 191 signatory countries of the Millennium Declaration , remains fully committed to implementation of the Millennium Development Goals ,
49	which have been properly reflected in a national strategy for social and economic development .
50	The pattern of our sustained economic growth ,
51	which is at 6 to 7 per cent for the seventh consecutive year ,
52	is a good support base for the whole society
53	to maintain higher standards of respect for human rights
54	and to fight poverty and crime .
55	I would like to take this opportunity
56	to thank the United Nations specialized agencies for their valuable assistance in support of the implementation of these objectives nationwide and on a central and local level .
57	The Albanian Government is pleased to note
58	that an ever - healthier climate of confidence and relations of bilateral and multilateral cooperation are prevailing in the South - Eastern European region .
59	The countries of the region are fully engaged in a process
60	that will lead us clearly toward Euro - Atlantic integration
61	and at the same time continually remove us from the extremist tendencies
62	that caused a number of conflicts in the last decade .
63	The regional policy of my Government is guided by the motto :
64	' the more integrated in the region ,
65	the more integrated in Europe . '
66	In implementing this policy ,
67	Albania is cooperating
68	as never before
69	with all the countries of the region
70	by making borders less relevant ,
71	opening up to one regional market the implementation of free trade agreements and free movement corridors ,
72	and stimulating foreign direct investment .
73	We are especially cooperating with the common fight against organized crime and all kinds of illegal trafficking .
74	In the meantime , Albania is reinforcing its border management and control ,
75	guided by the European Union and NATO standards .
76	My country will hold general parliamentary elections by the middle of next year .
77	We are committed to doing all
78	that is required
79	to ensure
80	that the election process is fully compatible with international standards for free and fair elections .
81	To that end , we are committed to continuing to work with relevant specialized institutions on elections
82	by fully implementing especially OSCE / Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights
83	( ODIHR )
84	recommendations .
85	For us , the process and standards are more important than the results of the elections .
86	In the context
87	of strengthening regional cooperation ,
88	my country is committed to a more enhanced partnership with all regional organizations and initiatives
89	that serve the promotion of good neighbourly relations ;
90	the strengthening of regional peace , security and stability ;
91	ensuring political support for integration into Euro - Atlantic structures ,
92	and attracting financing for national and regional projects in priority fields such as energy , transportation and telecommunications .
93	On its path towards European integration , the South - East European region is still facing pending challenges , such as the future of Kosovo .
94	Albania greatly appreciates the recent democratic and integration developments in Kosovo ,
95	thanks to the efforts of the respective peoples and the partnership of its self - governing institutions with the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
96	( UNMIK ) .
97	Allow me at this point to congratulate Mr. Soren Jessen - Petersen , Special Representative for Kosovo of the United Nations Secretary - General ,
98	in assuming this very important duty .